##ARRAY:
Array is the data sctructure that I am most familiar with because of the time that I have spent using MathLab. In MathLab all data is stored as an array. An array is a data structure that contains groups of variables. Each variable is stored in the array based upon its corresponding index. For example in MathLab we define the array "x=-3:.05:3". This array starts at index 1 with x(1)=-3 and increments the variable stored in each index by .05. Arrays can also be multi-dimensional. This means that an array is stored at each array index. let x=[[1,2,3],[4,5,6],[7,8,9]]. List is a 2 dimensional array. to access an element we call the row and column location. x[1,2]=8. Arrays are commonly used when the location of the data is not important. For example, in mathematical modeling it is useful to use an array that contains large quantities beacuse we only want to see how the data trends as whole and not what happens to a specific element of the array. 


##TREE:
A tree is a heirarchal data structure. This means that the data is located based upon where the data is stored in line. Each data element in a tree in known as a node. The first node of the tree ins know as a root and the last node is know as a leaf. The heirachy is described by familial terms. So a parent node links a child node below it. Siblings are nodes that stem fromt eh same parents. A root node has only descendents. A leaf node has only ancestors. Trees are more versatile in situations where an individual node needs to be access or acted upon. If using a routing algorithm the developer can target one, multiple or all nodes to be acted upon by a specific operation. Since the nodes are easily searchable the developer can access one without having to parse through the entire set of data.